(spacious atmospheric music)
Hey, I'm Jay Weidner and we're back for our fifth
episode of our conversations with
Crotalo from Italy,
from Damanhur.
Here we are.
And we're here today and we're gonna talk.
He's going to take us through
the incredible temple that they built in Italy.
Right outside Turin.
Yes Jay, it's a pleasure to be back here.
Yeah, it's a pleasure to have you.
Yes, and we're going to do a journey, now, underground
a little, actually in one of the most
magical places of the planet
according to our study the synchronic lines.
And we're going to do a journey in the
Damanhur Temple of Humankinds.
A temple that is dedicated to the humankinds
because is not connected to one specific religion
or to one specific spiritual research,
but is really dedicated to all the form of spirituality
that this planet embrace in many thousands of years.
Right, let's talk about these for a second.
You've already addressed this in a previous program,
but just quickly recap what we're lookin' at hear.
Yes, so these are what we call the synchronic lines.
In the past they was mentioned also
with the name of the "points of the back of the dragon."
And the dragons, or the big snakes,
they was representing the movement
of this river of energy all around the planet.
Like feng shui, a little bit.
Like a feng shui, or someone,
they are confusing them with ley lines,
but there are many different energy lines.
When we talk about the synchronic lines,
we talk about the main one, the most important.
And in this map, they are sign in blue and in red
just to define the one that are moving horizontally,
the blue one, and the one that are moving vertically,
the red one.
In total there are 18,
and they are going to connect themself
close to the poles.
Into the poles they are extending themself
like a double spiral in the rest of the solar system,
connecting to the other synchronic lines
coming from the other planet, from the Sun.
They are going out and then connecting
all the rest of the Universe.
So, let's say--
So the whole Universe is connected
by these lines of energy.
Well, yes, let's say that there is a huge
star net of synchronic lines that are
making us connected to everything.
But what is really interesting about this energy lines,
so we can not see
them with our eyes, we can perceive them
through mediumship,
through astral traveling,
through our kind of research connecting to the energy.
We can feel 'em, too.
We can feel it, for sure.
Well, what is interesting, is when the line
are touching together, they are crossing together,
and you can see in this map
there is many of these places.
Two, three, sometimes four lines.
Well, when the line cross.
So, this point are becoming something that
I mention like source.
Source of information, source of energy.
Or if you want, in Egyptian culture,
they are called the source of the Nile.
Where the Nile is not just the physical river,
but is really this, let's say,
stream of information, this stream of energy.
What is also very interesting about the synchronic lines
is that they are moving.
Slowly, but they are moving.
So places that in the past that was extremely important,
now they are not so important.
In new places, they are now preparing to be
the one for this period of time.
Looking at this from the humankind,
every time we are in one of these source,
in one of these crossing points.
There are temples, there are sacred places,
there are important civilizations,
there are important town.
Because what, there is a knowledge
that is using the energy of this synchronic lines.
So what happened, in the 70s,
before Damanhur start,
it was in interesting research.
The Falco, the founder of Damanhur,
with the first group of people,
needed to do what, well to complete
the map of this time, because they didn't have
all, let's say, the different points.
So what they did, they travel.
They traveled all around the world.
They do astral traveling, they're doing many of this
energetic research
to complete the map and then to find out
which was the best place.
The best place for what,
well the best place to create Damanhur.
To create then, something that is not just
a community, but something that could be really like
a station.
A point of connection between time, dimension and space.
So, and we was ready to build Damanhur
wherever it was this
Wherever that place was.
important place.
And it's a very funny story, very humoristic,
because when they finished,
when they complete all this research,
they found out that the most important point
where four synchronic lines are crossing,
it was just 10 miles
from where Falco was born.
Falco was born in Balangero Canavese.
Damanhur is in Baldissero Canavese.
So it's a metaphor, but we are always
looking outside for the most important things
and then we forget that the most important things
is just right here.
And he could have chose
to be born there anyway, so.
Well, probably he was guided to be born
exactly in that place.
So that's that place right there
where all the stuff is
coagulating.
Exactly.
North of Italy,
25 miles from Turin, that is the largest city.
Very nice place.
Yes, very nice place,
just one and a half hour from Milan.
So--
The foot of the Alps, there?
Yes, just at the bottom of the Alps.
A very interesting place,
because it's pretty nearby a lot of important places.
But, let's say the right place
then to start the project.
And the project is to create a place
that could represent our spiritual research,
but also to create an instrument,
a temple, that is a sort of spiritual accelerator.
We already mentioned this aspect.
When we talk about a spiritual accelerator,
we talk about a place that is able to talk to your soul.
Or if you want to re-awake the memory.
The memory of why your soul is back,
why you're back here, which is the reason
why you are in this life, in this incarnation.
So, there are places, the temple of humankind
is not the only one, but there are places
all around the planet, that are able to
make the click inside.
So they are called spirit accelerator
because they are accelerating
the memory of what you have accomplished in this life
to realize which is your mission.
So, little by little, we create the spirit accelerator
underground.
Because underground is where this synchronic lines
are passing through.
So, into the temple, we're going to discover also,
some of these places, there are the plug,
perfectly plug to these four synchronic lines.
And now maybe we can go to the next one.
Oh, and here we go.
This is an interesting picture, because will help us
to discover all the different chambers,
all the different part of the temple.
The temple is like a body.
So, every single chamber represent the different organs,
a different function.
The one with the entire
project, with the entire view,
well it was Falco.
But we didn't know that we was
going to create all of this.
At the beginning it was
just a temple, a little place,
into the mountain, to be well-isolated
from the radiation,
from all the other things that
can disturb our research.
Just kind of a spontaneous, spiritual thing.
Well, it was hard.
I bet.
There was
one direction, the other direction,
what to do?
We're going to ask the government,
to the Italian government,
to build 6,000 kilometers underground
according to ancient knowledge,
without engineer, without architect,
You would have been laughed at.
or yes, and then they would also control.
Eventually no.
Or, take the risk, do everything in secret.
So, it was our secret, it was our temple.
And then, take the risk on all of this.
And we choose the second option.
So, we start to dig into the rock,
with our hands.
Without any support from outside,
and I'm lucky because I'm part of this
group of the builder of the temple.
There was an incredible energy,
because everything was done to be secret.
So everything doesn't appear
as we was creating a temple, but,
these people, a little bit crazy or alternative.
They're coming and going.
They loved it.
Doing a lot of things day and night,
because for us this was the mission,
and part of the mission was to create something
that represent our spiritual research.
So we dig with our hands,
we dig together.
We did incredible, crazy things.
But, the energy was really the energy
that makes the glue of the entire community,
because when you work side by side
there is really something to know
who you have beside you.
And also, let's say, digging into the rock,
and I have to tell you, there was no empty space,
it was all rock.
So we dig every single centimeter.
But digging into the rock it was like to
dig inside of you.
So every time that you was creating a space outside,
it was like to create a space inside.
So it was, if you want a practical meditation.
And then you know, build the temple,
was like to build your inner temple.
So it was always this work, inside and outside.
And all of the sudden we start to create something
unbelievable, because it's true, there was
no architect, there was no engineer.
We follow the ancient knowledge of the past,
the use of the sacred geometry.
The one the Egyptians used in the Pyramids in Giza,
the one that the Mayans used in Chichen Itza
in just the pyramid.
What the Incas did in Machu Picchu,
and in many different civilizations.
The Parthenon in Greece.
Yes and all over the planet there are
places that are talking with symbols,
with geometry,
with numbers,
that are able then to translate,
to connect energies that, in these places,
are alive.
And this energy are information, are knowledge,
and simply to be there, it's like to be inside
of all of this information.
And this information is really affecting
then your soul, your aura, your energy.
So, these places are
talking a language that we call the Stone Language.
"Stone," because the material that resists more
during time.
Because it's a long terms project, okay, it's not just for
one generation but for many, many generation.
At the same times, it's the Stone Language because,
you don't need to read a book.
Because the book is the entire temple.
The book, it's--
Do we have a picture of the cover of that book?
Yeah, there we are.
This is definitely for who is--
Alex Gray published it.
Yes, Alex Gray, that is a dear friend of ours, so
Yeah, same here.
when he
discovered the temple, he say,
"Well, I want to make a book
"about The Temple of Humankind,
"because everybody need to know
"about this incredible place."
And he did a great job, and this is definitely
the reference point for who wants really
to discover The Temple of Humankind in Damanhur.
I mean if Alex Gray likes it, you know it has to be
top quality.
(laughing)
Yes, absolutely,
absolutely.
So, and then now coming back to
the main picture,
the map of the temple,
Yeah, let's go back to that.
Is this supposed to be how it looks on the hillside?
Exactly.
Where's the entrance, over there?
Well, there is more than one entrance,
I cannot, you know--
Is there a secret entrance?
Well, you know, "secret" is part of the
spiritual process to transform yourself.
So "secret" could be also what doesn't appear
and then appear as the solution, as the new opening, so--
How long did it take you to carve this out of the rock?
Well, to tell you the truth, it doesn't take so much,
because we start around 1978,
and all of this was done in 1992, 1993.
14, 15 years.
14, 15 years, and not more than 40, 50 people
working, digging.
Wow.
And if you can believe me,
well, this was a secret, also for the Damanhurians,
for some Damanhurians.
They didn't know.
Because also for us,
it was a spiritual process,
then to be aware that it was a temple,
then to be honored to walk into the temple.
So even in Damanhur there was Damanhurians,
there was working the temple.
Damanhurians, they didn't know anything about a temple,
so it was very interesting, and it was again,
the application of spiritual principle.
So all of this was done, as I told you, according to
the synchronic lines, so plugging perfectly
to these energy lines.
And it's very interesting, because then,
when in 1995, when there was all these adventure
that maybe we can talk about,
to legalize the structure, because we was blackmailed.
So you got busted, and the police came.
Tell that story.
Well, the story, it's probably not a nice story
at the beginning, because around 1991
we were starting to be blackmailed from a person
that was living before in Damanhur,
knowing about the temple, then he left,
and then he come out, asking money not to reveal
that the temple was existing.
But blackmail is not really part of our
way of living.
So we didn't accept that.
And then one day,
the policemen, the judge arrive
to this place with explosive and everything
and say, "We're going to blow up everything
"if we're not opening the temple."
So, in that moment we decided to open the temple.
Then the judge and the policemen, they enter,
and when they come out, they was crying.
They was completely astonished, say,
"We couldn't believe that you did something like this.
"It's something unbelievably beautiful."
So, we're going to do whatever we can to protect this place.
But, unfortunately, the first request from the country
was to destroy everything, can you imagine?
It's more than 6,000 square meters, so you have to
destroy the mountain, so,
it went to be a long process.
It was a battle to then make the temple
completely legal.
But, let's say, also our temple, because there was
also the idea to lose the temple
and then to be used for something that is not really
the reason why the temple is there.
So, finally, 1995, we legalize everything,
we become the official owner of the temple.
And at that moment, many geologists,
they came to control, to check if the structure was
strong enough and everything,
Safe.
safe enough.
So, well, the structure is not only safe,
because if a earthquake will come, and it's very rare
in this area,
the structure will move
instead of be broken or something like that.
But what is more interesting is that here,
we are in a very important tectonic plates
of the planet.
And because the rock that are in the surface
are rocks that normally, you find only very deep inside,
what they discover,
that all the temple is built exactly in a layer of rock
that is called mylonite.
Probably people are not so
used to the mylonite,
but the mylonite,
it's called the energetic rock.
So, it's the rock that brings the energy of the earth
to flow from one place to another place.
And we didn't know that.
It's like a conductor.
Exactly, and we didn't know that.
And these geologists, they was absolutely
astonished on the fact that we was building
exactly on that layer,
not another one,
but all the temple is exactly and only that layer.
So, it was the physical proof
of what we are researching in the energetical field.
And then, we can maybe now start with the--
Yeah let's start, let's take a tour.
We start with a tour,
we're going to come back, well,
we talk about secret passage, this is true.
Many places are done to
open secret part, secret door.
Because the secret doors are again the metaphora
of what we have inside.
If you want, it's a metaphora of the labyrinth.
So even when it looks like that everything is finished,
so there's always, you know, a door,
something that opens completely,
that can open something completely different.
And I'm going to maybe to go to other pictures
that we have at the beginning.
Okay, this one, exactly.
Just to remind you that when you come to visit a temple,
because probably it's nice to know that the temple
is open, so everybody can come to visit a temple,
to experience the temple, because more than a visit
we like to talk about it in spirits.
It's a sort of spiritual pilgrimage, but the temple is open
really to everyone.
So, in Damanhur we have every year
it's thousand and thousand of people from all over
the planet are coming to visit.
But outside, doesn't looks as a temple.
It's normal house.
And you see there is a normal
Door.
wooden door.
And if you cross this door, in the next picture,
well you're going in a corridor, and this corridor
doesn't look like anything.
But, all of the sudden,
there is a remote control,
and one part of the corridor, simply enter inside
of the mountain, and this is one of the doors,
one of the entrance, and all of the sudden,
you are inside of the temple.
Okay,
Wow.
we are in front of miles and miles
of different corridors.
Again, you can imagine that the temple is like a schema,
so also, how you walk from one chamber to another chamber,
so it's like to follow a path.
So you are creating a symbols
that is reflecting inside of you.
So, like a key that is open again,
to open memories, because this is
a place of memories.
This is a place of reconnection,
this is a place where--
Like a pilgrimage,
even.
Like a pilgrimage.
And all the symbols that you see
are part of what we call the archetype language.
Again, symbols, sounds, movement of the body,
able to connect and reconnect to energy,
to information.
All the temple is done according to the use of this
archetype language.
Okay, we are now going to one of them,
one of the first part of the temple created--
How tall is that door?
Well, the door is about two meters.
Oh so it's six feet.
Yes.
So that's about, what,
one, two, three,
about 35 feet high?
Yeah, something like that.
We can maybe go to the other one,
that, okay, that gives more details.
Well, this is one of my favorite
Wow.
places,
this is called the Hall of the Water.
And it's all connecting to
female side,
to memory.
What you see all around
are, again, use of symbols,
use of signs that brings this place
to be a sort of book.
It's a book of knowledge.
Actually, who paints all these rooms
was Falco.
Was his first, let's say, selfic paintings.
We're going to talk about selfica later on.
And, what is interesting,
okay, this is a very nice one because you can
appreciate the floor with symbology again,
connecting to the water, and to the female side.
But also, one of the first dome
in Tiffany glass.
This was the first one, the little one.
I want to bring your attention
on that sphere, you see?
Yeah.
And in this
sort of altar you probably see that there is rock,
and it's pretty interesting because,
everything is so amazed,
everything is so much art, and then what?
We left rock there?
Well, this is something that is not a secret,
so I can share with you.
When you find places in the temple where there is rock,
is because there is one of the access point
to the synchronic lines.
That's one of the reasons why we left rock.
We go forward, to the next one.
Just to admire the central part of the dome.
I have to tell you,
Spectacular.
all of this artwork,
it's coming from Damanhurians.
But what people, they don't know, is that there was
no professional artist in Damanhur.
No one of us, zero.
But because we need to bring,
well, why art?
Well art is another way to translate
your spiritual values.
So through art, through these corridors,
through the symbols, you are giving meanings.
And art is that kind of emotional language.
It doesn't need any translation, so everybody can
feel the same set of conscious, the same emotion.
I like to say that if a picture is worth a thousand words,
a symbol is worth a thousand pictures.
Absolutely, absolutely.
So also, all these game, let's say,
of beautiful forms,
well this is a page of the book.
Because all the symbols are in the archetype language.
So even it looks only art, in this moment
you are in front of information.
And you are receiving this information
to the only fact that you're observing that.
They're entering and they're coming to,
starting to work.
It's the real purpose of a temple.
Exactly.
Wow.
This is a very
nice one.
That's the whole dome there, huh?
Yes, this is a picture I took from the floor,
so this is the entire dome.
Well, the lens give really
Fisheye.
devioso
of the shape.
Yeah, that's really beautiful.
It's a book of knowledge, I told you,
You're right, it is.
so you can really stay there for days and days
and study every single detail.
This is just really spectacular.
Yes, I'm maybe thinking to come back
for a moment to the main map of the temple
just to show where we are going.
Alright.
Okay, very good, so,
So there's that,
Before it was there,
you see?
Yep.
That one?
We enter from the lady in Mozai,
they represent--
(mumbles) this way.
Yes.
Then to here,
and from that way,
Now they're here,
the ladies represent the tarot card, the star,
and from the secret passage we went to the Hall of Water.
Now we're going just right there,
you see where there is this column,
we are going to the Hall of the Spheres, okay,
we are going to (laughing).
Now you can see the spheres and the enclaves.
All of the spheres.
Well, this is really, let's say, the console.
It's the place where you are really in contact
with all the synchronic lines.
The sphere are, let's say,
an instrument to connect to the synchronic lines.
Why?
Well, not only because through them you are
connecting to the entire world,
but what is passing through these synchronic lines.
Well, we say energy.
But we can go more precise, is what is also energy?
Well, yes, energy's information.
But it's also an information that can be translated
as ideas.
Dreams, thoughts.
So, we might imagine that through the spheres
it's possible to send thoughts, to send inspiration,
to send dreams.
Dreams, inspiration, thoughts, they might inspire
people that are living in that area of the world
nearby the synchronic lines.
So from here you can really help the planet,
help in many different situations,
sending the right thoughts, the right intention
to solve, to help, to reawake,
not only for us,
but for everyone.
And, because the synchronic lines
are the connection with all the rest,
well we might imagine that the synchronic lines
are also from where we are coming
and from where we are going,
through the re-incarnations,
so the souls are leaving through the synchronic lines
and they are coming back from the synchronic lines.
And there is a rhythm of opening and closing
of these lines that are
the most important rituals of the year.
Solstice and Equinox.
Summer Solstice, 21 of June.
Winter Solstice, 21 of December.
Spring Equinox, 21 of March.
Fall Equinox, 21 of September,
so these are the rhythm of opening and closing
of the synchronic lines.
This solstice
are the most important.
And probably you can see the roof.
The roof is pretty interesting,
because the roof is all in gold.
Really.
Real gold, they are leaf and leaf of gold.
Why, well because
gold in this case
has a function to isolate, to protect.
Here there is really a lot of energy,
there is more than nine spheres,
so to isolate from the rest,
To contain it.
To contain
everything, well in this case,
you need the gold.
And you're telling me that no artist did this floor,
that you guys did all this?
We did everything.
And these paintings?
Every single--
Well you guys must be like
reincarnated Michael Angelos or something.
Well, we are teaching
how to discover your inner artist,
because we are all artists.
But unfortunately we believe that just few people,
or not me or "I didn't study, I can't."
Well, to give an example, when I just arrived
to Damanhur I was 18 years old.
Well, I started immediately to work in the Tiffany glass
laboratory and I didn't have any,
zero experience.
And then I started, because I was a young
Damanhurians, to work in this huge
pieces of Tiffany glass.
And I was cutting the glass, I was assembling the glass,
I was plumbing the glass.
Every single part, and I did
a lot of these pieces and you know what?
You became an expert.
I didn't know for what it was.
I didn't know if it was for us, for other people.
And then, when six months later,
I was introduced into the temple,
I finally discovered
What you were doing.
what I did.
And I will share with you,
when we're going to the pictures
what I did or what part I did because
it was astonishing, but I did it,
I was 19 years old,
with no experience.
So everybody can do it.
And we did everything.
Painting, mosaic, clay,
Tiffany glass,
or other techniques about glass.
So everything done from us.
Nice.
And the temple was
the reason.
It was pushing us, then,
to cross the limit.
The temple was always the instrument
to cross one limit, to go over what you think
is possible.
Because if you think about it,
the temple is the temple of the impossible possible.
And if we did it in Italy with no money,
with no support, by our hands,
I mean, everybody can do it even better,
all over the planet.
Very inspirational.
We are in the (mumbles) so,
we was over there in the whole sphere,
and now we're going in the big one.
Okay, let's see the big one, that looks
really interesting.
Yes, this is a really--
Go through the gate,
hey!
There we go.
Hee-oh-wow.
Well the mirror, they might
play a little bit in this picture.
This is called The Hall of the Mirror,
it's the largest one.
It's definitely the chambers that we are using also
more when we are inviting people to have experience
that are not just
a pilgrimage a few hours,
that there is also the possibility to slip into the temple,
to do some seminars inside of the temple.
And this is the right place to do it.
Well that is
really amazing.
And look at that.
That is also in the Guinness Records,
because it's the largest Tiffany glass dome in the world.
It's only the Tiffany glass dome,
it's 120 square meters.
It's more than 24,000 pieces of Tiffany glass.
Just so you understand that, people,
that's one fifth larger than a football field.
So, to give an idea,
well, I did 20% of that.
This is what I was working for six months,
and I didn't know for what it was.
Can you imagine, when then I was introduced,
well Falco introduced me for the first time in the temple.
You must have been
They brought me in that
very proud of yourself.
chamber that was just finished,
and I look up and I see all the pieces that I was
putting together, it was,
one of the moments that you never forget in your life.
It will be some of the frame
that will keep with you in your soul.
So, that is also representing
a page of the book.
That means that all these form,
all the symbols
are based on this archetype languages,
so it's talking to you.
It's telling you something.
Also the different colors, the different element,
are part of these,
of the energy inside of the chamber.
So everything, every step--
The lines here are phi ratio,
right here in the flower.
Yes, you can measure that.
Very nice.
And I have to remind you, the light that you see,
Yeah, where's that coming from?
is not coming from outside.
We are underground.
So all the light is artificial.
All artificial.
Even if it doesn't look that you are underground,
but everything is underground.
So the light is not coming from outside,
it's coming from artificial light.
Have you spend days in the temple?
Well, to say days and days,
well it depends.
It's not really a place where you're going to stay days.
But, to stay for example, overnight,
yes that's for sure.
And also we are inviting people to have
the same experience,
because the dreams here are completely different,
I'm sure.
or teaching astral travel and do astral traveling
inside of the temple, well, that is something.
What's this chamber again?
This is still the Hall of Mirrors.
Hall of Mirrors, that's right.
Because it's so tall,
there is a terrace all around the chamber,
and there is a beautiful mosaic
on the walls.
Those are dolphins there?
Yes, there is other symbology
connecting to male parts, to female parts,
to ancient traditions,
so there is the falcon that represent Horus.
Well, Horus is not only the divine force connecting to
the Egyptian.
But for us, Horus is also
an important force that is connecting to
a period of time that is pre-Atlantian.
Well we talk about Atlantis many times,
well, Horus was already there in that time.
And also, to an important part
that is what we call the triad,
that if you want is the idea, or the operation
to bring together all the divine forces
from these last 22,000 years,
from all over the planet,
and bring them let's say, in the same direction,
in the same harmonious direction to support
the growth of the human kind.
Yes, I'm sorry, it's just--
Those falcons there, they represent Horus, then.
In this case, yes, they represent Horus.
And as you know, Horus is the protector of the human kind,
is the one that brings knowledge to the human kind,
so I have a lot of very important symbology.
Very much so.
Let's go for the next one.
See the next one.
Woah.
Details.
Details still of this chamber,
well, we can really spend
many, many hours to see all the different
meanings about that.
We see again sphere, also the different colors
of the sphere.
They represent the different connection
with the synchronic lines.
And if we go to the next one,
we are going to see also
something that happens during the visit,
so it's possible to do different kind of meditation.
Also to use the sacred language as dance,
a sacred dance, not because you have to do
beautiful movement, but because the movement,
it's another way to communicate inside,
outside to other dimension, to other beings,
and these are experience that we are sharing
with guests that are coming from all over the world
as I told you, because there's no many places like this one.
I would say you're right about that.
(laughing)
Goodness.
And some of these position of the body,
this sacred dance are also represent
on the roof of another chamber.
In the next picture we are going now to
the Hall of Metals.
On the walls the paintings are completely changed,
because also the temple is changing, constantly.
Because every time that we are creating new space,
or we are modifying something,
this is affecting the entire structure.
So in terms of art, in terms of symbology,
there is a constant update, let's say.
This the reason why people,
they love to come back often to Damanhur,
not just for one time.
Because, Damanhur looks always in movement.
Evolving.
Everything is evolving and transforming.
So, this place in particular,
is dedicated to the beyond.
Every month, connecting to the different moon phase,
there are moments, celebration that are really
the connection with the beyond, with the visible,
with who is in the other side, also.
So, this is really dedicated to
the beyond, to the different age of the humankind.
The different windows that you see.
This is one of the meditation,
one of the guided meditation that we are offering
for the guest.
Well, there are eight of them,
and they represent the different age
that we are crossing during our life.
From zero to eight, from eight to 16,
from 16 to 24,
so they represent the different, let's say,
personality, the different part,
that in different age they are manifesting.
Because we are not all the same, we are also
constantly changing.
So like the eight folded path of--
Sort of, if you want.
Well, we are going just down there,
where you see that white column.
Right here.
Yes,
we are going to the Hall of the Earth.
This is the deepest one.
We are more than 45 meters below
the level of the sea
and this is another very, very,
well, they are all special, I'm sorry.
Yeah, they are.
And sometimes it's mind blowing because--
That's spectacular.
Being there, believe me, it's really something.
I'm sure,
If you are touched
I will be there.
I'm coming for sure.
Yes, absolutely.
And if you're touched from the picture,
believe me, being there it's really,
be in another world.
This is the Hall of the Earth.
This is a double chamber that represents
the symbol of the infinity.
This is the first one with this eight wide column
that are holding
the entire roof,
that is painted and is describing prayer
repeated 66 times.
All this painting, they represent
the history of the humankind
with a different part and also,
let's say the battle between
the enemy and humankind.
Between the dark and the light.
With many different element that are part
of our spiritual research.
The next one, this is one of the door,
one of the entrance of the Hall of the Earth,
and this was the first work with Tiffany glass.
Was really the beginning of the beginning.
And this door represent the Sun.
There is one, there is one entrance
that represent the Sun, and another one,
specular on the other side represent the moon.
The moon?
It's easy to understand that this is the moon,
colors are changing.
(gasping)
Well that is just amazing.
The roof has the center in Tiffany glass,
but all the rest is this prayer in ancient language
repeated 66 times, and it was an amazing work
because the picture, they was working,
lay down.
Well just like Michael
Angelo.
(laughing)
Something like that,
something like that.
It was really an incredible work for the time,
and also, well you have to imagine that Damanhur,
we was not very rich,
or we was not rich at all.
Looks like you got a lot of money to me.
And all our effort was for the temple,
'cause the temple is one of the most precious part,
or one of the most precious part.
From there there is a little stair,
that bring us to the other room.
Let's go.
Oh.
Oh my God.
You see?
The little stair, we went from that side,
I see, I see, right.
and we are--
And what's this one
called?
Well, this is still the Hall of the Earth,
so all of them,
it's about it.
And what is really interesting here,
well on the wall we are representing
many different animals.
Many different animals and unfortunately
they are on the risk to disappeared.
You know that we have animal and plants name,
and for us, these are spiritual names,
so they are a deep connection with these spiritual animals.
So we are always very aware to be,
to support to protect the nature and environment.
And in this one,
Is this the constellations?
Yes.
What is described here,
on these little light dot
is the sky,
seen from the planet Earth,
about 22,000 years ago.
So he's representing the sky of 22,000 years ago.
Why did you pick 22,000?
Because as far as the ancient history of humankind,
that is an important date,
connecting to civilization like Atlantis,
but also connecting to a moment, a age
where the planet Earth was connected really to everything.
Not only here but also out there.
Synchronic lines going everywhere.
Let's go to the labyrinth.
(laughing)
This is an amazing place.
It's a Labyrinth, it's based on
four different, well,
I say four now, but you can imagine
that we are still creating new part of the temple.
The statue at the corner
are all specular,
because like in a labyrinth, you don't know where you are.
And the labyrinth represent the labyrinth inside,
the labyrinth that will get to discover
your talent, your meaning.
And in all the different windows
that probably you can see,
and maybe in the next one, okay.
This is one of the many different windows.
They are representing the different divine forces,
connecting to the humankind,
or artists from other civilizations.
So like to honor and represent
and integrate all the different divine forces.
It's a pretty, pretty complex work.
Let's go for the next one.
Okay, so we're over--
Well, it was over there.
So, we almost catch everything,
but there is still some pictures
about what we call selphica.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
You see over there, there is this
sort of uh--
What is that?
Oh, here we go.
Well, selphica will probably be our next topic,
and selphica come from an ancient names
that means spiral.
And there's nothing new, it's an ancient knowledge
that combine the sacred geometry
with different materials like copper or gold
or silver or stones or crystals or liquids,
to do what, to create a sort of instrument
able to catalyze the vital energy,
transform it and then donate it
for many different function.
But what the people they don't know
is that the largest selphica in the world
is the temple.
So inside of the temple there are
miles and miles of different
metal circuits that inside of
floors, roof, walls,
are creating a sort of huge antennae.
So the temple is an antennae, it's like a selphic antennae,
able to give signal and receive signal.
So we are able, through the synchronic lines
through the temple to connect very refined energy.
Pure energy, pure information.
Attractor, mic-attractor,
many technical names
to talk about something that bring us to do
some spiritual surgery.
To shift of wrong information and the correct information,
to rejuvenate, to open doors to time,
dimension and spaces.
And many, many, many other things.
So let's do our next show on these,
and we can, I wanna get deeper into this.
Yes, so if we come back to the first one.
Here we go.
We have the example of one of these complex selphica,
well, selphicas are also my rings or some bracelet
or some necklace.
Well, all of them are able
to work on your aura.
So, when you bring them in contact with your body,
so they are starting to affect,
to help your aura
to a sort of frequency,
to a sort of energy.
So you are changing your frequency
instead of the frequency of the selphica.
And this is a very simple explanation.
When you are in a temple, when you are in this cabin,
so you have structure of selphica
that are able, really, to brought information that are,
when I say pure information, it's like to imagine
from where we're coming, from where the soul is coming.
And many times when there are issues
or situation because we're also using that
for healing reason, I have to tell you,
many people are going now to visit Damanhur
also for health reasons.
Not only because we are using natural medicine,
but because what we are doing in the temple,
is something absolutely unique.
And it's something that is really
connecting to the fact
that the temple represent also
a possible future.
And the selphica, it might also represent
a possible technology.
Well, here, the border between knowledge,
technology, magic,
looks like--
Getting blurred there.
Very, very thin.
So selphica is at the same time
an ancient knowledge, because here, there is a lot
of museum in the United States about Native American,
and you can see many selphica instruments, for example,
in their museum.
Or if you go to the north of Europe,
to the pre-viking civilization,
in their museum in Copenhagen, you see them.
Or if you go in Egypt, the Cairo museum
or in the Turin Egyptian museum, nearby Damanhur,
you see a lot of this selphica.
But at the same times if you go into Mexico City,
and you go in their incredible museum,
about old Meso-American civilization,
there's a lot of many different selphicas.
Alright, let's get back to these on our next show.
We've just--
Absolutely.
Thank you for coming, Crotalo.
Thank you, Jay.
And I'm Jay Weidner,
and we just did a tour of Damanhur.
Where else are you gonna find this kinda stuff,
but Gaiam TV, I ask you?
Thank you very much, sir.
Thank you Jay, for the next time.
You're awesome, thank you.
(spacious atmospheric music)